1. Working with Softvision Onsite coordinator/GEMs to resolve issues upon Escalation.
2. Acting as point of contact for service issues that need to be or have been escalated (Portfolio level)
3. Acting as point of contact for service issues that need to be or have been escalated (Portfolio level)
4. Planning, guidance and support Setup/Enhancing the Portfolio and ensuring that business objectives are met.
5. Providing related Metrics to stakeholders on defined organization metrics, CTQs (Account Level)
6. Sharing Portfolio/Account health with all stake holders
7. Interlocking with members of various project stake holders to discuss common IT strategy and business developments and their inter connections with other businesses within the Portfolio.
8. Preparing & implementing Succession plans for all key resources at Portfolio Level / Account / Project Level
9. Ensuring the Business Continuity as per the BCP(Business Continuity Plan)
10. Providing information to support monthly charging from Portfolio, Managing and tracking finances according to budget.
11. Project scorecard and metrics, also implementation of Pyramid structure.
12. Influencing and advising management & other professionals on strategic and tactical decisions.
13. Achieving Revenue goals set for projects / Account / Portfolio
14. Identifying, tracking and managing all risks and managing the mitigation plan at Portfolio Level
15. Facilitating start-up operations at Softvision Offshore by supporting the Account/Project team during new Engagement phase, interlocking with Competency / Infrastructure.
16. Supporting opportunities/presales by providing input for long-term Account/Project planning/Strategy, engagements and articulate value proposition to the client.
17. Initiating and Coordinating with the respective Teams (HR & Onsite team) for onsite Travel.
18. Timely training & evaluation of all resources (within the Account) in client and project specific procedures, including those related to data security and privacy (Including in-house training for the new joinees into the Account)"
1. Understanding the design & developing the code as per the defined process.
2. Creating, executing Unit Test cases and documenting results as per project plan.
3. Resolving production/post production problems coordinating with development/QA team.
4. Ensuring quality and timely completion and delivery of the deliverables defined in SoW.
5. Executing the task to completion as per Work Breakdown Structure and schedules in line with the Project Plan
6. Providing metrics to support Project/SLA on a regular basis (Project Level)
7. Coordinating & Participating in Bug Validation/Defect review meetings.
8. Executing project activities. 
9. Analysis of existing code/functionality and suggesting the improvement in performance.
10. Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit within the overall Existing technical architecture. 
11.  Working with Test Lead/Development counterparts to help plan, build, operate and maintain the testing environment. 
12 Ensuring effective resolution & takes responsibility on the improvement in backlog management.
13 Conducting Root cause analysis and implementing preventive & corrective actions on the conflict issues/defects/customer complaints etc at the Project Level. 
14 Fostering team building by sharing Technical knowledge, highlighting problems or critical situations to the Team. 
15 Producing summary status reports on a weekly/monthly basis, as agreed upon with the Client/respective stakeholders 
16. Analyzing Test Scenarios / Test Objectives and Creating & Reviewing Manual / Automation Test cases/Test Scripts for testing the assigned Requirements as per the defined guidelines and standards.
17. Understanding the functional /non functional requirements and creating Manual/Automation test scripts. 
18. Documenting proof-of-test results and verifying, testing, closing test-outcome issues.
19. Creating and executing test suites (operational test flows) in order to ensure complete and comprehensive testing coverage. 
20.  Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit within the overall Existing technical architecture.  Reviewing the work products on SDLC/STLC phases and document.
21. Ensuring effective resolution of complaints, problems tickets raised & taking responsibility for the decisions taken for the issues and escalation. 
22  Establishing a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan.
23 Supporting the (Test) Manager to establish a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan. 
24 Conducting knowledge sharing sessions to other team members on the assigned Functional requirements and Non Functional requirements. 
25. Technical/functional architecture.
26. Providing direction on strategic business issues.
27. Analyzing the requirement, and design process as per Process lifecycle defined.
28. Ensuring process adherence, business control compliance, satisfactory performance during reviews/audits and complete compliance to SPI/Client standards and methodologies.
29. Preparing Technical documentation on Application, Architecture, Interfaces, User Manuals etc as per the defined process.
30. Analysis of existing code/functionality and suggesting the improvement in performance.
31. Ticket resolution as per the process defined in the project plan
32. Conducting Root cause analysis and implementing preventive & corrective actions on the conflict issues/defects/customer complaints etc
33. Ensuring timely claiming, tracking of hours, reporting, billing, billing verification, and Budget tracking
34. Analysis of new software product releases and the impact of these new releases onto application and come up with the plan to implement these releases.
35 Fostering team building by sharing Technical knowledge, highlighting problems or critical situations to the Team.
36 Identifying, documenting and managing requirements and analyzing these requirements from a business perspective.
37. Providing Technical advice, guidance and direction to client, team and ensuring the implemented solution adheres to the defined Technical/functional architecture.
38 Establishing a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan
39 Supporting the (Test) Manager to establish a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan.
40 Analyzing the requirement, providing input for the Design/Design documentation and escalating the issues.
41 Conducting knowledge sharing sessions to other team members on the assigned Functional requirements and Non Functional requirements.
42 Designing & Reviewing of Test Scenarios / Test Objectives.
43. Analyzing Test Scenarios / Test Objectives and Create & Review Manual / Automation Test cases/Test Scripts for testing the assigned Requirements as per the defined guidelines and standards.
44 Understanding the functional /non functional requirements and creating Manual/Automation test scripts.
45 Documenting proof-of-test results and verifying, testing, closing test-outcome issues.
Reviewing the work products on SDLC/STLC phases and document.
46  Ensuring effective resolution of complaints, problems tickets raised & taking responsibility for the decisions taken for the issues and escalation.
47  Ensuring effective resolution & taking responsibility on the improvement in backlog management.
48. Analyzing Test Scenarios / Test Objectives and Create & Review Manual / Automation Test cases/Test Scripts for testing the assigned Requirements as per the defined guidelines and standards.
49. Documenting proof-of-test results and verifying, testing, closing test-outcome issues.
50.  Reviewing the work products on SDLC/STLC phases and document.
51.  Working with Test Lead/Development counterparts to help plan, build, operate and maintain the testing environment.
52. Ensuring quality and timely completion and delivery of the deliverables defined in SoW
53.Fostering team building by sharing Technical knowledge, highlighting problems or critical situations to the Team.
53 Understanding the design & developing the code.
54 Creating, executing Unit Test cases and documenting results.
55 Fostering team building by sharing Technical knowledge, highlighting problems or critical situations to the Team
56 Resolving production/post production problems coordinating with development/QA team.
57 Analysis of existing code/functionality and suggesting the improvement in performance.
58 Reviewing the work products on SDLC/STLC phases and document.
59 Ensuring effective resolution of complaints, problems tickets raised & taking responsibility for the decisions taken for the issues and escalation.
60 Ensuring effective resolution & taking responsibility on the improvement in backlog management.
61 Conducting Root cause analysis and implementing preventive & corrective actions on the conflict issues/defects/customer complaints etc at the Project Level.
62 Coordinating & Participating in Bug Validation/Defect review meetings.
63 Executing project activities.
64. Identifying, tracking and managing all risks and manage the mitigation plan at Project Level
65. Ensuring quality and timely completion and delivery of the deliverables defined in SoW
66 Providing direction on strategic technical issues at ORG level.
67.Executing the task to completion as per Work Breakdown Structure and schedules in line with the Project Plan
68 Transforming, Implementing, tuning and maintaining the databases used by the application.
69. Specifying, placing and modifying data (Database) to support the development of applications solutions, and being responsible for the data integrity & security.
70. Analysis of new software product releases and the impact of these new releases onto application and come up with the plan to implement these releases.
71. Analysis of new Database product releases and the impact of these new releases onto application and come up with the plan to implement these releases.
72. Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit into a new technical architecture.
73. Establishing a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan
74. Supporting the (Test)Lead to establish a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan.
75  Identifying & setting up of test environment.
76 Working with Test Lead/Development counterparts to help plan, build, operate and maintain the testing environment.
77. Leading/Reviewing Creation/Modification of system level Architectures and supporting control reviews.
78. Defining and leading creation of pre-concept and concept level system and application integration technical architectures under client direction.
79. Analysis of complex or new Technical situations and implementing solutions or developing new approaches, procedures or processes in a single Or Multiple project(s).
80. Providing direction on strategic technical issues at ORG/Project level.
81. Providing advice to the client/Stakeholder on a range of applications and products, which may be employed in the solution.
82. Assuring solution viability that meets the client's requirements, preferences and expectation (Appropriateness of the solution in the client context).
83. Providing the Technical solution within winning bids (Presales), proposals or contract extensions.
84. Defining and leading creation of detailed technical architecture for major and minor enhancements that impact the existing technical architecture.
85. Requirement Development as per QMS process / as defined in the project plan
86.Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit into a new technical architecture.
87. Analysis of existing code/functionality and suggesting the improvement in performance
89. Ensuring timely claiming, tracking of hours, reporting, billing, billing verification, and Budget tracking
90. Analysis of new software product releases and the impact of these new releases onto application and coming up with the plan to implement these releases.
91. Leading/Reviewing creation of Component level Architectures and supporting control reviews.
92. Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit within the overall Existing technical architecture.
93. Providing Technical advice, guidance and direction to client, team and ensuring the implemented solution adheres to the defined Technical/functional architecture.
94. Preparing Technical documentation on Application, Architecture, Interfaces, User Manuals etc as per the defined process.
95. Analyzing the requirement, and design process as per Process lifecycle defined
96.  Analysis of existing code/functionality and suggesting the improvement in performance.
97.  Analyze complex or new Technical situations and implementing solutions or developing new approaches, procedures or processes in a single Or Multiple project(s).
98.  Initiating Demos/ Walkthroughs / discussions with the client to ensure that the team is getting clarifications on issues in Customer supplied work products
99.  Analysis of new software product releases and the impact of these new releases onto application and come up with the plan to implement these releases.
100. Supporting the sales team in Pursuing new opportunities
101.  Requirement Development as per QMS process / as defined in the project plan
102.  Leading/Reviewing Creation/Modification of system level Architectures and supporting control reviews.
103. Translating the client technical requirements for development into IT solutions that fit into a new technical architecture.
104.  Defining and leading creation of pre-concept and concept level system and application integration technical architectures under client direction.
105.  Reviewing the workproducts on SDLC/STLC phases and document.
106. Ticket resolution as per the process defined in the project plan
107.  Defining the process, standards, templates, checklists, guidelines for the SDLC/STLC phases in an engagement.
108. Executing, Monitoring and Controling project activities as per QMS Process.
109.  Executing Project Closure activities as per QMS Process.
Transforming, Implementing, tuning and maintaining the databases used by the application.
100. Specifying, placing and modifying data (Database) to support the development of applications solutions, and for the data integrity & security.
111.  Resolving production/post production problems coordinating with development/QA team.
112.  Supporting the (Test)Lead to establish a regular and comprehensive schedule of project meetings, submission of reports, reviews and presentations as part of the project communication plan.
113. Pursuing new Systems/Application integration opportunities
114. Planning & coordinating cross-functional, Induction/Project training to meet project/Org expectation.
115. Working with Softvision Onsite coordinator/GEMs to resolve issues upon Escalation.
116 Acting as point of contact for service issues that need to be or have been escalated
117 Planning, guidance and support Setup/Enhance the Portfolio and ensuring that business objectives are met.
117 Defining the process, standards, templates, checklists, guidelines for the SDLC/STLC phases in an engagement.
118 Providing related Metrics to stakeholders on defined organization metrics, CTQs (Project Level)
119 Providing related Metrics to stakeholders on defined organization metrics, CTQs (Account Level)
120 Fostering team building by sharing knowledge, highlighting problems or critical situations to the Team, being pro active in everything regarding Team working behaviors.
121 Sharing Portfolio/Account health with all stake holders
122 Interlocking with members of various project stake holders to discuss common IT strategy and business developments and their inter connections with other businesses within the Portfolio.
123. Preparing & implementing Succession plans for all key resources at Portfolio Level / Account / Project Level
124. Analyzing complex or new situations and implementing solutions or developing new approaches, procedures or processes in an Account from Quality/Management perspective.
125. Being Point of escalation above the Offshore Project Manager.
126. Resource planning (workload balancing) considering, resource rotation, competency & skill requirements.
127. Achieving Revenue goals set for projects / Account / Portfolio
128. Identifying, tracking and managing all risks and managing the mitigation plan at Portfolio Level
129. Preparing the Quality Management Plan, the Project Management Plan, the project estimate and schedule, and also provide inputs to the Statement of Work
130. Reviewing and approving the Quality Management Plan, the Project Management Plan, the project estimate and schedule and the Statement of Work.
131 Defining best practices in the critical evaluation and selection and / or development of the development methods, processes, best practices, tools, software components and hardware requirements of the applications and data.
1. Ensuring process adherence, business control compliance, satisfactory performance during reviews/audits and complete compliance to Softvision/Client standards and methodologies.
2. Requirement Development as per QMS process / as defined in the project plan
3. Documenting proof-of-test results and verifying, testing, closing test-outcome issues (Applicable for testing projects).
4. Ticket resolution as per the process defined in the project plan
5. Ensuring timely training & evaluation of all resources (within a Project team) in client and project specific procedures, including those related to data security and privacy (Including in-house training for the new joinees into the Project.)
6. Ensuring that the service levels stated in the SoW and agreed with the client, are maintained, reported and reviewed with GDM on a regular basis.
7. Providing information to support monthly charging from Portfolio, Manage and tracking finances according to budget.
8. Initiating project activities as per QMS Process.
9. Executing, Monitoring and Controling project activities as per QMS Process
10. Executing Project Closure activities as per QMS Process.
11. Ensuring timely claiming, tracking of hours, reporting, billing, billing verification, and Budget tracking
16.  Analysis of the requirement, and design process as per Process lifecycle defined
17.  Understanding of the design & development of the code as per the defined process.
18.  Creation, execution of Unit Test cases and documentation of results as per project plan.
